Hey there. My name is JJ and I'm
a Senior Product Manager at [inaudible] focused on the agent experience.
I was the Data Product Manager at Apple,
VSCO and Collective Health in a past life.
People should take this course if they want to effectively leverage data in
their day-to-day strategic and tactical decision-making as a product manager.
This course is perfect for a data engineer,
data analyst or data scientist that's
yearning to apply their skills towards product management,
or a product manager that just wants to become more data-driven in their decision-making.
One piece of information about this course is that your internal stakeholders
will oftentimes have many different opinions on what the company should build.
But at the end of the day,
data and user research will ultimately be the deciding factor.
Some career options for people after they complete this course
are becoming an associate product manager,
product manager, product analyst,
product operations specialist, data product manager or data program manager.
These skills are important to learn because almost every company
is underutilizing the amount of data they have at their disposal.
Hiring managers look for product managers with a good grasp of SQL and they know-how,
how to whip up raw data into actionable insights for product presentations.
I love working with a small team that builds
products to make people's lives more fulfilling and efficient,
whether they're musicians, photographers,
customer experience agents, or just anyone who has a problem worth solving.
If you're currently employed in a company but not in a product manager role,
you can still build up your product management chops on the job.
You find a problem,
either a customer-facing or internal process issue,
gather data and use the research to estimate
the benefits of how much it would impact the business if we
solved it and pitch that to
internal stakeholders to hopefully get the resources to solve it.
When you enter this field,
you're going to expect that data will always be really messy and unorganized,
and that you'll apply your new found skills to bring order to the chaos.
Every day is a little different.
A particularly diverse day involving typical tasks at
work involve working with user research and design,
to talk to customers about a new prototype,
either through Zoom or in person.
After, I usually look through a small queue of tickets that were
routed in from the customer advocacy team via Zendesk,
which I then through triage looking for any customer request,
either informing them that it's coming up in
a roadmap or asking more clarifying questions in
the hopes of designing a solution that will not band-aid
the problem but rather fix it scalably for the long term.
I then attend two daily scrum rituals with the engineering teams that I work with,
taking note of the development of our progress.
In addition to taking note of any edge cases that crop up during development.
I may then tier up documentation for
our APIs based on a change that's about to go out later this week,
and not just showing the glory but I also may attend
a postmortem about a production outage the other day,
discussing with engineering managers,
site reliability engineers and other product managers how we
can mitigate this particular incident from happening again in the future.
Finally, I may wrap up my day by pulling data from
Google BigQuery and then visualizing it in Tableau to
inform a PRD or product requirements document that
I'm running for a product that will be starting development on in a couple of weeks.
Employers are looking for someone to uncover and communicate
user market and product insights from raw data without mess or fuss.
The most rewarding thing about working in the field of product management is
physically seeing your users find delight in the products that you shape,
and that you've led a team to make user's lives better in some way.